Gatsby documentation (#239)
mi6/ic-design-system: src/content/structured/get-started/gatsby.mdx

---
path: "/get-started/install-components/gatsby"

navPriority: 7

date: "2023-01-19"

title: "Gatsby"

subTitle: "How to use the components in a Gatsby project."

contribute: "https://github.com/mi6/ic-design-system/tree/main/src/content/structured/get-started/gatsby.mdx"
---

## Step one

> In the root of your project:

Reviewer: What is this suggesting? 'In the root write ...' or 'In the root find ...'. Need to add a verb to add context to the instruction.

```shell
// using npm
npm install @ukic/react @ukic/fonts

// using yarn
rm package-lock.json
yarn add @ukic/react @ukic/fonts
```

## Step Two

Install the `gatsby-plugin-stencil` package to allow Gatsby to render the components server-side.

```shell
// using npm
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-stencil
```

## Step three

In your `gatsby-config.js` file (at the root of the project), add the following:

```js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-stencil`,

    options: {
      module: "@ukic/web-components",
      renderToStringOptions: {
        prettyHtml: true,
      },
    },
  },
];
```

## Step four

Import the component(s) in your Gatsby pages.

```jsx
import { IcComponent } from "@ukic/react";
```

## Step five

> To get the correct styling with the ICDS components, import the core CSS file.

Reviewer: "To get the correct styling for the ICDS components, import the core CSS file."

Add the following to the top level index file of your project.

```jsx
import "@ukic/fonts/dist/fonts.css";
import "@ukic/react/dist/core/core.css";
```

## Helpful links

> The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [plugin used](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/). Further information can be found on [using Stencil web components in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).

Reviewer: Link is non-dedscriptive. Describe the think you are linking to. 'Plugin used' is non descriptive and contextual. Instead use 'Gatsby StencilJS plug in' used.

> The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [plugin used](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/). Further information can be found on [using Stencil web components in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Gatsby documentation contains more information on [gatsby-plugin-stencil](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/). Further information can be found on [using Stencil web components in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).
```

---
path: "/get-started/install-components/gatsby"

navPriority: 7

date: "2023-01-19"

title: "Gatsby"

subTitle: "How to use the components in a Gatsby project."

contribute: "https://github.com/mi6/ic-design-system/tree/main/src/content/structured/get-started/gatsby.mdx"
---

## Step one

In the root of your project:

```shell
// using npm
npm install @ukic/react @ukic/fonts

// using yarn
rm package-lock.json
yarn add @ukic/react @ukic/fonts
```

## Step Two

> You need to intstall an extra package to allow Gatsby to render the components server side.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install the `gatsby-plugin-stencil` package to allow Gatsby to render the components server side.
```

> Install the `gatsby-plugin-stencil` package to allow Gatsby to render the components server side.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Install the `gatsby-plugin-stencil` package to allow Gatsby to render the components server-side.
```

```shell
// using npm
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-stencil
```

## Step three

> In your `gatsby-config.js` file (at the root of the project) add the following to the `module.exports`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In your `gatsby-config.js` file (at the root of the project) add the following:
```
I don't think it needs the module.exports (I think that is something for Vue?)

```js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-plugin-stencil`,

    options: {
      module: "@ukic/web-components",
      renderToStringOptions: {
        prettyHtml: true,
      },
    },
  },
];
```

## Step four

Import the component(s) in your Gatsby pages.

```jsx
import { IcComponent } from "@ukic/react";
```

## Step five

To get the correct styling with the ICDS components, import the core CSS file.

Add the following to the `index.jsx` file of your project.

```jsx

> project / src / pages / index.jsx;

Reviewer 2: It's possible the developer is using the TS template for Gatsby perhaps say something 

`Add the following to the top level index file for your project` and remove the folder destination from the code example.

import "@ukic/fonts/dist/fonts.css";

> import "@ukic/web-components/dist/core/core.css";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import "@ukic/react/dist/core/core.css";
```

```

## Helpful links

> The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [plugin used.](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/) Further information can be found on [using Stencil in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [plugin used.](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/) Further information can be found on [using Stencil web components in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).
```

> The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [Stencil plugin](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/) used, and further information can be found on [using Stencil in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Gatsby documentation contains more information on the [plugin used.](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-stencil/) Further information can be found on [using Stencil in Gatsby](https://dev.to/brunnerlivio/use-stencil-with-gatsbyjs-1omo).
```

Currently reads to me like it is a Stencil plugin, so have tried to make it sound less like that
